# Medical (Mal)Practice (Team Fortress 2)

<br>

### *(Forgive the random topic, I no longer wish to go poking around with python modules and make a long blog about that.)*

<hr>

Ahh, yes. Team Fortress 2. You've heard about it, no exceptions. For a game as old as it is (17 YEARS AT TIME OF WRITING THIS??), it sure is holding up very well against the test of time. Sure, it's experienced its fair share of neglect from VALVe and has been overrun by bots at one point. But recently the game has been steadily recouping and its dedicated fanbase is as ecstatic as ever. 

<br>

But aside from the game's history, if you have never played the game before, you might be wondering, what is it about? Team Fortress 2 is a class-based (or hero-based as they call it now days) first person shooter that revolves around 2 teams, Reliable Excavation Demolition (RED) and Builders League United (BLU), as they fight each other over land in New Mexico (goofy idea, I know). 

<br>

However the game has a lot more depth than that, with each mercenary having fully fleshed out backgrounds, personalities, and stories. Each merc is easily distinguishable by their silhouette alone and their behavior is another key factor in what makes them such likeable characters. 

<br>

The character I'm going to be talking about is the Medic. Easily the most important class in any organized and even unorganized games of TF2. The Medic is German, mad-doctor stereotype and is the quintissential healer class of TF2. Utilizing his secondary weapon, the Medigun, he can connect a beam of healing salve (don't ask what is in it) to his teammates to heal them of their injuries at a relatively fast pace. 

<br>

## <ins>***Playing Medic***</ins>

If you are willing to give the Medic a shot, just understand that you will die a lot when starting out. You will die horribly, but thats all part of the learning process. Your main goals as a medic will be to build Ubercharge, keep as many teammates alive and healthy as possibly without sacrificing your safety, and above all else, stay alive and away from the enemy as much as possible. Normally, class-based first-person shooters are teamwork dependant, which is the case in Team Fortress 2 most of the time, but not for the Medic. ***As the Medic, your life matters more than that of your teammates***. 

<br>

It doesn't matter if your Demoman player is burning to a crisp out on the field. If he is in the middle of a fight with the entirety of the enemy team and you don't have the rest of your team to back both of you up, do not put yourself in critical danger in order to help him. Get outta there. A good thing to remember is that Medic will match the speed of heal targets that are faster than him, so if you see a friendly Scout nearby who is also retreating, attach beam to him, and use the boost in speed to get out. Make sure you also stay close to your Scout buddy to keep the heal beam attached until you get to a safe enough location to recoup.

<br>

The next important thing is to build that sweet, sweet Ubercharge. The Medic's secondary weapons, the mediguns, while incapable of damaging opponents, are really his primaries, as they are the tools that the Medic will use roughly 90-95% of the time (usually less if you have the Crusader's Crossbow primary equipped) in order to heal his teammates. Additionally, while healing teammates, you will also fill a bar on your screen that reads **"UBERCHARGE,"** which is important. You can build Uber optimally by prioritizing hurt or not fully overhealed teammates. Healing teammates over 142.5% HP (almost fully overhealed) will half your Uber build rate, so it is recommended to spread out your heals and heal as many of your teammates as possible to build as fast as possible. 

<br>

Getting the bar to 100% and right clicking with your medigun held out will activate 8 seconds *(or 4 charges of 2.5 seconds for the Vaccinator)* of Ubercharge for you and your patient. The Ubercharge granted depends on the respective medigun you are using. These Ubercharges range from granting tripled healing rate, to 75% damage resistance *(Vaccinator)*, to triple damage, or even complete invulnerability. A good teammate can do a lot with 8 seconds of Ubercharge. However, remember that all Ubercharge percentage you build is lost on death, which further exacerbates your main goal of staying alive. Even if you were at a low Ubercharge percentage when you die, the 10 or 20 seconds you spend in the respawn queue is 10 to 20 seconds you are not actively building Ubercharge and healing injured teammates. 

<br>

The third most important job as a Medic is to keep as many of your patients alive and as healthy as possible. This part of the Medic gameplay loop is the least important of the big 3 goals since staying alive and building that Uber is too important to give up for some measly healing and overheal. Overheal is a mechanic where after you heal a patient to full health, continuing to heal them will fill their health to a maximum of 150% of their normal max health. When the beam is disconnected, the overheal will decay at a rate dependent on the health of the class. All classes, whether its a 450 HP overhealed Heavy or a 185 HP overhealed Scout, will decay back to their respective maximum health in exactly 15 seconds, assuming they take no external damage. 

<br>

To quickly summarize your goals as a Medic, your job is to keep as many of your teammates alive and healthy as possible without putting yourself in danger, all while building Ubercharge in order to organize team pushes to give your team an advantage. 

<br>

## <ins>***Mediguns***</ins>

All mediguns heal at the base rate of 24HP/sec, except for the Quick Fix, which heals at an increased base rate of 34HP/sec. These healing rates are also the same when applying overheal, except for the Vaccinator, which applies overheal at a rate of 8HP/sec because of its overheal penalty. All mediguns except the Vaccinator have a single Ubercharge of 8 seconds, and the duration of the Uber shortens everytime you switch your healing target to another patient while the Uber is active. The Vaccinator instead holds 4 charges and using Uber will deplete 25% charge from your meter, giving you and your patient a 2.5 second bubble of resistance against a selected damage type. 

<br>

## <ins>***Stock: Ol' Reliable***</ins>

Stock is the default medigun that you start out with and it is, hands down, the strongest and most dependable of the 4 mediguns. Its Uber gives you and your heal patient 8 seconds of complete invulnerability to damage. 8 seconds where you and your patient cannot die to bullets, rockets, grenades, stickybomb traps, melee attacks, needles, or even backstabs. However, in exchange for this ridiculous power, it also takes the longest to charge *(technically its build rate is normal since it's stock)*. 

<br>

Even when building Uber optimally, it still takes 40 whole seconds of charging to get an Uber ready, and in reality, you won't be building Uber optimally the whole time you are alive, so in practice it takes about 1 minute or more for the average Medic to build a stock Uber after respawning. However, the reward of having the strongest Uber in the game is no joke. And there is a reason the other mediguns have faster Uber build rates to compensate.

<br>

So how should you play with the stock medigun? Since this Uber is the most powerful and takes the longest to charge, you should be the most risk-averse when playing with stock, only playing more aggressively and closer to the frontline when you are close to hitting 100%. As for actually activating Ubers (this applies to all single charge mediguns), you should use the Uber when a ***sufficient*** opportunity presents itself. 

<br>

Try not to hold onto a full Uber for entire minutes after reaching 100%. Waiting for a perfect opportunity where the enemy is confused and outnumbered, your team is right by your side, everyone on your team is fully overhealed and ready to push, the enemy sentry is/sentries are down, and a few teammates are wrecking havoc on the enemy backline, is a fool's errand. Such an opportunity will not present itself even once a match, most times not once, even in a few matches. Always look for the next best option, and take advantage of that.

<br>

On the other hand, you shouldn't be popping Uber as soon as you get to 100%. You will waste quite a few Ubers that way. Just have a little more patience when deciding when to pop Ubers and lower your standards for popping Ubers overall. But never be indecisive. Being unsure of a decision will lead to absolutely nothing being done. If you are being attacked by a bombing soldier, who is jumping in to specifically target you, pop the Uber. At least then you won't end up in the respawn queue and you may be able to do something with you waning Uber, rather than dropping it outright. Remember that all Uber is lost on death, so using it to save your life is a valid choice. 

<br>

As for heal patients, who is a good stock Uber patient? Truth be told, there is never really a *"bad uber."* Because of the nature of the stock Ubercharge and the invulnerability it grants, any Uber pop should put some space between you and your opponents as they will be wary of the fact that they cannot damage you while your patient can. That doesn't mean you should pop on any teammate and be done with it. Barring player skill, there are some generalities and stereotypes that occur when deciding who to Uber, such as Spy usually being a bad uber recipient, and Demomen/Soldiers being really good. 

<br>

However, even if certain classes are better Uber recipients, you should still be taking notes in your mind about which players are better that which and who is better at what class. This will help you make informed decisions on multiple things, such as who is better to rely on in order to retreat, who can hit shots in the most unlikely of situations, who can demolish the enemy team with a single Ubercharge. It also helps you decide on who you shouldn't rely on: who can't hit the broad side of a barn and cover your rear for you to escape. 

<br>

The general order of bad recipients to good recipients looks something like this:

Bad--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Good<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Spy&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Engineer/Sniper&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;